last video we ended on the question of
what is a non-fungible asset right
because a non-fungible token
is supposed to represent the uniqueness
of a non-fungible asset it's supposed to
represent the ownership of that
non-fungible asset okay
so we landed on
what does fungibility actually mean
right
and so it's best explained through
examples
if we look at asset examples and these
asset examples aren't necessarily
fungible non-fungible solely in a
digital space we're looking at it
holistically
if we were to look at a fungible asset
we would be talking about cash
bitcoin
because one dollar
is equal to one dollar right when we
exchange one dollar for one another
the value stays equal and the same is
true for bitcoin okay so i hear you
saying like well but like okay one
dollar is one dollar is one dollar right
and one bitcoin is one bitcoin so if i
have this bitcoin or that bitcoin it
doesn't really matter okay got it so
that's fungibility
yes
if the asset itself can be exchanged
in likeness in value it is fungible
now there are gray areas here and we'll
get into those later on but
then let's take a look at non-fungible
assets
and i took some time to jot down a
couple of examples here
one can be watches right another could
be plane tickets
and yet another could be stamps
okay
let's zoom in a bit more
and let's see why these are defined as
non-fungible but let's go back to this
real quick
if we look at cash you know and we're
looking at trading a dollar for a dollar
a dollar for a dollar is in likeness
because a dollar's value remains a
dollar irregardless of the serial code
that's printed on it you know where it
was produced a dollar is a dollar you go
to a store you pay with a dollar a
person will accept a dollar
therefore it is a fungible asset the
exact same is true
for bitcoin
it is a fungible asset now that's weird
right well no it's a digital
currency it's still a currency therefore
it has all the hallmarks of a fungible
asset now
to date we aren't really using it as
much as a currency right like you can't
walk into your local mom-and-pop shop
and you know spend the bitcoin and like
they accept it there are certain
companies that accept transactions for
bitcoins like tesla
but it doesn't have mainstream adoption
as a currency yet so
currently in the tax code often it's
looked at as an asset class so there's
weirdness here but
one bitcoin is equal to one other
bitcoin irregardless of its
serial code here right it doesn't matter
if you had the first bitcoin never mind
or the last bitcoin never mind the value
of one bitcoin is equal to the value of
another bitcoin
so then we get into the non-fungible
territory right and we get into this
area where we're like
well what is
what like why is a watch
non-fungible
well if you look at it right
on the left you can see a gold very
pretty watch here on the right you can
see a very bland watch now if we
assigned an asset class to this like for
instance this one was
a rolex
and this one was just you know a regular
casio
well there's immediately a value
difference in the money you paid
but
right you buy a casio off the shelf for
a hundred dollars
you're not going to go to someone and
exchange that in likeness
for another casio
because
the watch itself has devalued it hasn't
retained value it's devalued because
you've worn it you've it's not a
collector's item so you can't say that
you can go trade ocasio for a rolex
because a rolex you know if we look at
rolex itself
it usually appreciates it goes up in
value regardless of if you wore it
depending on the type you had and
whether or not you did something to it
and the serial codes here matter if you
have a rolex that was made 50 years ago
let's say you had a rolex daytona
and then you had a rolex daytona that
was made in 2021
the values are not alike they're both
daytonas don't get me wrong they're both
daytonas right they're the exact same
model so why is one worth more than the
other because there's an intrinsic value
that we as a community give to it which
makes it non-fungible
i can't just go and say hey you give me
your new dayton i'm gonna give you my
old daytona it's not a fair trade it's
not like a dollar for a dollar no no no
not at all
and the same is true
for stamps or plane tickets right have
you ever met a stamp collector well a
stamp made in the 1960s is not equal to
a stamp made today and the same is true
for a plane ticket if we got a business
class plane ticket the aisle versus the
window seat they can't be traded in like
because at the end of the day it's the
person himself
who determines like oh i'd rather have
aisles so i'm rather willing to pay more
for it right so there's nuances here
that determine non-fungibleness and the
same is true actually for
cash right because just like stamp
collecting you could do coin collecting
and i remember when the euro came out
back in the 2000s people were collecting
coins like crazy because certain emblems
were custom printed on it in limited
runs and therefore the value of a 2 euro
although if you went to spend it in the
store would be accepted as 2 euro within
the trading community
the value of that two euro coin could be
way more than the actual face value of
the coin
and that's what determines
non-fungibleness it's what are we
willing to give to it
as a value and
is it unique to us or not right so let's
get into some of the characteristics
here the key traits
well
for something to be non-fungible it has
to be unique
so you know like rolex in a limited run
like the coins in a limited run
it needs to be irreplaceable right the
first daytona ever made
is always going to be worth more
than the second daytona rolex ever made
non-interchangeable swapping them
doesn't equate an equal value and that
is the key trait of something that's
non-fungible
okay
so we know what makes something
non-fungible
but then we go back to the coin example
fungible versus non-fungible because
cash was fungible but then i talked to
you about coins
the value of an item and its use
determines whether it's fungible or
non-fungible outside of the traits right
so the value we assign to it also has to
be tied into it
it's not just the key traits like we
could assign all of these key traits to
a bitcoin right the first bitcoin ever
printed has a serial code it's unique
it's this that the other but also it's
the value we assigned to it that's why a
coin collected in 2000 that was a euro
at face value is 2 euro but in the
collector space can be worth way more
and that's what makes fungible versus
non-fungible so difficult to distinguish
and that's where nfts come in right when
we're talking about these non-fungible
items
the token
represents the ownership of that
non-fungible item
in modern days
like if we go back to our example right
when you buy a rolex
what's your form of ownership like what
determines all of this right why do we
need non-fungible tokens
that why
we need to look a bit deeper into